Copyedit ocr with google vision api (#537)
programminghistorian/ph-submissions: en/drafts/originals/ocr-with-google-vision-and-tesseract.md

#### Second combined method

The second combined method works with the original PDF but, instead of using the OCR text string that Google Vision provides for each page, it searches the JSON output files for the words that fall within the bounds of the text regions identified by Tesseract. This is possible because Google Vision provides coordinates for each word in the document.

This method has the advantage of not relying on Google Vision's layout detection at all. However, the downside is that line breaks that were not initially identified by Google Vision cannot be easily reintroduced. Therefore, if it is important for your project that the OCRed text retains line breaks at the correct locations, the first combined method will be the best choice.

The following three examples highlight the potential benefits of using Google Vision, Tesseract, or one of the combined methods. Each image represents two pages from the dataset we will be using in this lesson. Outputs created for the passages highlighted in yellow by each of the four methods are detailed in the table below each image.

## Comparisons

### Example 1

> {% include figure.html filename="ocr-with-google-vision-and-tesseract1.png" alt="Visual description of figure image" caption="Figure 1: First two pages of \“Tomb of King Henry IV in Canterbury Cathedral\”, with four highlighted lines indicating the text used in the OCR results below." %}

Author: Hello @isag91. As part of our commitment to accessibility, we are now asking authors to provide descriptive alt-text to accompany figure images. 

You can slot the alt-text in here.

I've collated [some resources on our Wiki](https://github.com/programminghistorian/jekyll/wiki/Achieving-Accessibility-Alt-text-Colour-Contrast#alt-text) as guidance if you need it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% include figure.html filename="ocr-with-google-vision-and-tesseract1.png" alt="Two scanned pages of English text in a modern font and occasional diacritics." caption="Figure 1: First two pages of \“Tomb of King Henry IV in Canterbury Cathedral\”, with four highlighted lines indicating the text used in the OCR results below." %}

```

| Trinitatis de Howndeslow. vescendi causâ; et cum in prandio sermocina- | Trinitatis de Howndeslow vescendi eaus&; et cum in prandio sermocina- |
| quod cum a Westmonasteriâ corpus ejus versus Cantuariam in paiva | quod eum a Westmonasterii corpus ejus versus Cantuariam in parva |

| Combined Method I | Combined Method II |
| --------- | --------- |
|KING HENRY IV. IN THE CATHEDRAL OF CANTERBURY, AUGUST|KING BENRY IV. IN THE CATHEDRAL OF CANTERBURY, AUGUST|
|* "Clemens Maydestone, filius Thomæ Maydestone Armigeri, fuit | ** Clemens Maydestone, filius Thomæ Maydestone Armigeri, fuit |
|Trinitatis de Howndeslow vescendi causâ ; et cum in prandio sermocina-|Trinitatis de Howndeslow. vescendi causâ ; et cum in prandio sermocina-|
|quod cum a Westmonasteriâ corpus ejus versus Cantuariam in parva|quod cum a Westmonasteriâ corpus ejus versus Cantuariam in paiva|

In the above example, we can observe that words such as "Thomæ" and "causâ" are correctly spelled in all three methods involving Google Vision but are mispelled by Tesseract. The two combined methods perform similarly but the first is the most accurate, notably because of an improved rendering of punctuation.

### Example 2

> {% include figure.html filename="ocr-with-google-vision-and-tesseract2.png" alt="Visual description of figure image" caption="Figure 2: First two pages of \“Aelfric's Life of Saints\”, with several highlighted sections indicating the text used in the OCR results below." %}

Author: @isag91 Please could you slot alt-text in here?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% include figure.html filename="ocr-with-google-vision-and-tesseract2.png" alt="Two scanned pages of old English text with a yellow background. The first page is a title page with text in gothic font. The second page features footnotes arranged in columns." caption="Figure 2: First two pages of \“Aelfric's Life of Saints\”, with several highlighted sections indicating the text used in the OCR results below." %}

```

|se wæs þryttig geara mid his 2 wife on clænnysse .|se wæs þryttig geara mid his wife on clænnysse .|
|116. hále.<br/>119. bóc. 0. þæt (for þe). sette.<br/>117. mielum seo cyst.<br/>I do. béc.<br/>1 Leaf 94, back.<br/>2 Above the line.| 116. hále.<br/>119. bóc. 0. þæt (for þe). sette.<br/>117. miclum seo cyst.<br/>I do. béc.<br/>1 Leaf 94, back.<br/>2 Above the line.|

Example 2 reveals Google Vision's weakness when it comes to layout. For instance, Google Vision places the footnote 120 at the very end of the page. However, both combined methods solve this issue. Even though the output provided by Google Vision is of a much better overall quality, this example also shows that Tesseract occasionally performs better than Google Vision at character recognition. The footnote number 120 became "I do" in all three Google Vision outputs.

### Example 3

> {% include figure.html filename="ocr-with-google-vision-and-tesseract3.png" alt="Visual description of figure image" caption="Figure 3: Two pages from \“The Gentleman's Magazine - Volume XXVI\”, with several highlighted sections indicating the text used in the OCR results below." %}

Author: @isag91 Alt-text here too.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% include figure.html filename="ocr-with-google-vision-and-tesseract3.png" alt="Two scanned pages of English text with a yellowed background. The text features archaic characters such as the long 's'. The first page is a title page and the second contains two columns of text." caption="Figure 3: Two pages from \“The Gentleman's Magazine - Volume XXVI\”, with several highlighted sections indicating the text used in the OCR results below." %}

```

* The first is to create a new PDF file where text regions are re-arranged vertically so that Google Vision's inability to detect complex layouts is no longer a problem. With this method, we can still use the "full-text annotation" from the JSON response file.
* The second method is to use the coordinates of the text blocks detected by Tesseract to select the corresponding words detected by Google Vision. In this case, we have to re-create the text, character by character, instead of using the "full-text annotation".

### First combined method

The first combined methods converts a document into a list of images (i.e. each page becomes an image). For each new image, the Tesseract API is used to identify text regions. These text regions are then cut, padded and arranged vertically into a new image. For instance, a page featuring two columns will become an image where the two columns are stacked on top of each other. The new image will therefore be roughly half the width and twice the height as the original. The new images are appended and transformed back into one PDF. This PDF is then processed with the `vision_method` function defined above.

> To create these new PDFs sequenced by regions, three new packages are needed. First, [pdf2image](https://perma.cc/MD5E-ZJ2W) converts PDFs to [PIL](link) image objects. Second, [tesserocr](https://perma.cc/SJ9L-AGPP) provides the coordinates of the different text regions. Third, [pillow](https://perma.cc/BP96-MACG) helps us rebuild images for each page according to the coordinates provided by tesserocr. Using [conda](https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/) is the simplest way to install the packages.

Author: Hello @isag91. I'd like to ask if you could provide a link here to define PIL? 
My guess is that you are referring to Python Imaging Library (PIL) objects here. If so, I think it would also be useful to expand that acronym.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create these new PDFs sequenced by regions, three new packages are needed. First, [pdf2image](https://perma.cc/MD5E-ZJ2W) converts PDFs to [PIL](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Python_Imaging_Library) (Python Imaging Library) image objects. Second, [tesserocr](https://perma.cc/SJ9L-AGPP) provides the coordinates of the different text regions. Third, [pillow](https://perma.cc/BP96-MACG) helps us rebuild images for each page according to the coordinates provided by tesserocr. Using [conda](https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/) is the simplest way to install the packages.

```

    img_pad.paste(pil_img, (n_pixels, n_pixels))
    return img_pad
```

> The next step is to create a function that takes an image of a page as input, uses Tesseract's API to identify the different text regions, and stores them in a list called 'regions'. Each element of the list will be a [tuple](link) containing an image of one of the regions and a dictionary containing the four coordinates of the region (the 'x' and 'y' coordinates of the top-left corner, as well as the height and the width). For each region, the image is padded using the function defined above and appended to a list initiated at the beginning of the function.

Author: Hello @isag91. Could you provide a link here to define tuple?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The next step is to create a function that takes an image of a page as input, uses Tesseract's API to identify the different text regions, and stores them in a list called 'regions'. Each element of the list will be a [tuple](https://www.w3schools.com/python/python_tuples.asp) containing an image of one of the regions and a dictionary containing the four coordinates of the region (the 'x' and 'y' coordinates of the top-left corner, as well as the height and the width). For each region, the image is padded using the function defined above and appended to a list initiated at the beginning of the function.

```

    lim_p[0].save(new_filepath, "PDF" ,resolution=100.0, save_all=True, append_images=lim_p[1:])
```

> The following function executes the above and OCRs the new PDF with the `vision_method` defined [in the previous section](link).

Author: Hello @isag91. I'm not certain which section/sub-section you're referring to here? 
It would be good to add a specific link. We can use this format: `[in the previous section](#google-vision)`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following function executes the above and OCRs the new PDF with the `vision_method` defined [in the previous section](#google-vision-2).

```

```
### Second combined method

> The second combined method uses the text region coordinates provided by Tesseract to create text output. We will be extracting any words that fall within the defined regions from the JSON response files we generated earlier using the `JSON_OCR` function as explained in the [Google Vision section](link).

Author: @isag91: As above, we can add a link here to either a section or sub-section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The second combined method uses the text region coordinates provided by Tesseract to create text output. We will be extracting any words that fall within the defined regions from the JSON response files we generated earlier using the `JSON_OCR` function as explained in the [Google Vision section](#google-vision-2).

```
